DIRECTION CONCEPT SEED (key: a9cf5a53; mode: experience; source: api; approved pool: c3b204a1eed6; 306/564 human-approved; rerun with --scope direction --mode experience --from a9cf5a53 --candidate-count 7 to reproduce this roll against this catalog revision)
ASSIGNED INDEX: 6
  After ordering the grounded directions by resonance, build candidate
  6 of your own grounded list; the assignment never points at a
  challenger. The assignment is the roll, not a suggestion: your top-ranked
  direction is what every run would ship, so the script decides which grounded
  direction gets built. Each direction joins a durable visual system to a
  concrete expression for the requested first surface, decided as one. It must
  survive the current task plus navigation, quiet and dense content,
  interaction and state, and a substantially different future surface. In an
  attended run, present the assigned direction fully committed and offer
  re-roll. You may add ONE card for your top-ranked grounded candidate when
  it is not the assigned direction, kicker IMPECCABLE’S PICK, with an honest risk line
  naming its familiarity; one pick card, never a ranked lineup, and the pick
  never takes the lead position. When the assignment IS your top candidate,
  there is no pick card. Re-roll yourself only
  on named factual grounds, when the assignment cannot carry the product's
  truth or task; taste is never grounds.
  The assignment exists to refuse the model's ranking rut, never to outrank
  the user or the brief. Never expose assignment metadata in user-facing labels.
CHALLENGERS:
  1. a wiener werkstätte metalwork showroom, where hammered silver baskets punched with perfect square holes stack luxury into strict black-and-white lattices
     SOURCE ID: design-canon-hoffmann-gridsmith-showroom
     CREATIVE SPARK: In a showroom off the Ringstrasse, silver baskets pierced with rows of perfect square holes catch the gaslight, and the walls themselves look drawn with a ruler dipped in black lacquer.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: gallery-white ground ruled in lacquer black, hammered-silver sheen on frames and edges, the active cell filled solid black within its pierced row
       - Type/composition: ver sacrum roman capitals letterspaced inside ruled cartouches, square-unit borders framing every text block, symmetry held strictly to the lattice
       - Topology/navigation: content sits inside square-punched lattice frames; sections are nested caskets that open along strict orthogonal seams
       - Controls/state: every control is one square cell in a hammered border; active fills the cell solid black, idle leaves it pierced open
       - Responsive/motion: the lattice re-counts its squares per viewport but never stretches one; motion is a slow silver glint
     WEB LEVERAGE: CSS grid with aspect-ratio-locked square cells and SVG lattice masks keep the punched geometry exact at every viewport
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/design-canon-hoffmann-gridsmith-showroom.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/design-canon-hoffmann-gridsmith-showroom-hero.webp
  2. a jazz session sleeve where a duotone photograph is cropped hard to one corner, the artist name set in tight sans caps at an unexpected angle, and a wide band of flat color carrying the rest of the field
     SOURCE ID: posters-covers-sleeves-blue-note-session-sleeve
     CREATIVE SPARK: A photograph of a man at a piano, cropped so hard he is almost out of frame, and the rest of the sleeve is one flat orange with his name across it at eleven degrees.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: a duotone photograph in ink black and one warm spot color, set against a wide flat field of the same spot at full strength
       - Type/composition: tight sans caps set at a deliberate angle, a session photograph cropped hard to one corner, and generous flat color elsewhere
       - Topology/navigation: the flat band is the constant and the photograph moves within it, so navigation recrops rather than repaginating
       - Controls/state: controls are title lines, the active one reverses out of the band, and inactive ones sit in the photograph's shadow
       - Responsive/motion: the flat band absorbs reflow while the crop holds its tension, and motion is a band color change between sessions
     WEB LEVERAGE: responsive crop that preserves compositional tension, a flat band as a css custom property, and per-session color transitions
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/posters-covers-sleeves-blue-note-session-sleeve.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/posters-covers-sleeves-blue-note-session-sleeve-hero.webp
  3. A working plate where every element registers against one off-centre calibrated rail, colour survives only as hairline emission lines of seven wavelengths standing on a procedurally banded charcoal continuum, and state is carried in line height, dash and doubling rather than hue.
     SOURCE ID: operate-c-emission-line-rail
     CREATIVE SPARK: A glass spectrogram lying on a low viewing box at three in the morning: a grey continuum crossed by needle-thin bright lines, every legend at the same tiny size, one sodium pair doubled and standing brighter than anything near it.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: procedural charcoal continuum with bone legends; colour only as hairlines at 405/436/486/546/589/615/656nm; foreign images mat into graphite, edged by one line.
       - Type/composition: one grotesque at a single size, ranked by tracking and ink; all matter hangs off one off-centre rail, and prose only ever sits in bone on flat ash plates.
       - Topology/navigation: every destination is a tick on the rail; the open one blooms into a giant plate above it, the rest stay hairline stubs, and nothing ever leaves the rail.
       - Controls/state: state is line form, not hue: full-height solid live, dashed pending, half-height stale, struck disabled; a doubled line, sodium yellow, outranks its neighbours.
       - Responsive/motion: a landing line slides to its position and damps with one overshoot; narrow widths shorten the band shown, never the type; sheets behind the top one dim a step.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Build the rail as one custom property mapping any value to an x position; every mark is a 1px absolutely placed line whose state is height, dash pattern and doubling, settled by a spring, never by colour.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/operate-c-emission-line-rail.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/operate-c-emission-line-rail-hero.webp
  4. a broadcast teletext magazine, three-digit pages of block-mosaic graphics and double-height headers held in a 40 by 24 character grid on black
     SOURCE ID: broadcast-programming-teletext-service
     CREATIVE SPARK: You key 302 and the header counts pages in the corner; the screen blinks and a football score builds itself from cyan blocks on black, and behind the quiz question an answer waits invisible until your thumb finds REVEAL.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: the fixed broadcast eight on flat black, white for body text, yellow for headlines, cyan for live figures, red reserved for alerts and REVEAL answers
       - Type/composition: one bitmap face in a rigid 40 by 24 cell grid, double-height rows for section headers, block-mosaic sixels drawing every graphic from the same cells
       - Topology/navigation: every page holds a three-digit address keyed directly; magazines group by hundreds and subpages rotate on a timed carousel you can hold
       - Controls/state: keying digits is the whole input; loading counts page numbers in the header, hidden answers wait behind REVEAL, held subpages show a HOLD flag
       - Responsive/motion: the 40-cell row is sacred, small screens scale the cell rather than reflow; motion is subpage rotation and blink, both stoppable to a held still
     WEB LEVERAGE: ch-unit CSS grid and a bitmap face keep the 40 by 24 cell lattice exact; keyboard digits route pages and a REVEAL state toggles hidden spans
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/broadcast-programming-teletext-service.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/broadcast-programming-teletext-service-hero.webp
  5. a jacquard brocade woven from punched instructions, where thousands of binary thread choices resolve into a gold bird across midnight silk
     SOURCE ID: textiles-weave-drape-fashion-jacquard-punched-brocade
     CREATIVE SPARK: Rows of tiny holes pass above the loom; beneath them, gold weft slowly gathers into a bird whose wing spans hundreds of separate thread decisions.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: midnight blue silk as ground, gold weft floats as the accent motif, punch-card cream for instruction rows, warp shadow in near-black ink
       - Type/composition: monospaced ledger digits for card rows, motif titles in woven small caps, layout banded row by row like the loom's lift sequence
       - Topology/navigation: Move between finished motif, weave row, card, and individual warp lift with full traceability.
       - Controls/state: Punch, lift, throw, reverse, and compare with encoded, raised, woven, skipped, and corrected states.
       - Responsive/motion: Present the loom as synchronized pattern and instruction rows and make every thread choice keyboard inspectable.
     WEB LEVERAGE: A shared binary matrix can drive textile rendering, editing, and an exact accessible instruction representation.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/textiles-weave-drape-fashion-jacquard-punched-brocade.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/textiles-weave-drape-fashion-jacquard-punched-brocade-hero.webp
  6. a hand-cranked paper menagerie of tabs, bellows, and pinned joints, where humble folds produce a surprising procession of motion
     SOURCE ID: kinetic-sculpture-automata-crank-paper-menagerie
     CREATIVE SPARK: The crank turns; a white fox bows, a crimson bird opens concertina wings, and their shadows cross on the paper wall behind them.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: cut white paper on kraft board as the ground, charcoal cast shadow as body ink, one crimson fold reserved for the figure currently in motion
       - Type/composition: hand-cut letterpress caps with visible tab and slot marks, captions on folded paper strips beneath each figure, one crank line ruling the base
       - Topology/navigation: Advance through a procession while each figure opens into its own linkage and supporting details.
       - Controls/state: Turn, pause, reverse, and inspect joints with folded, tensioned, extended, and resting states.
       - Responsive/motion: Reduce the procession to one figure per viewport and provide illustrated keyframes beside every control.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Pointer and keyboard input can drive a common crank timeline, synchronizing SVG cut-paper layers with accessible step descriptions.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/kinetic-sculpture-automata-crank-paper-menagerie.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/kinetic-sculpture-automata-crank-paper-menagerie-hero.webp
Fuse each challenger before judging it: the challenger supplies the form
  and its system grammar, the product supplies every fact, and clarity wins
  conflicts. Weigh the fused result against the assigned direction on exactly
  two axes, audience identification and product clarity. Losing to strong
  grounded material is a valid outcome; beating a thin or tool-monoculture
  list is the point. A fused challenger that wins both axes becomes the build.
  Close the weighing with a verdict per challenger, decided before any
  borrowing is considered: wins (beats the assigned direction on both axes),
  competitive (holds one axis), or declined (loses both). A declined
  challenger is not spent: name the one discipline of its system the assigned
  direction lacks, and raise the assigned direction to match before
  presenting it. A donation transfers ambition and system discipline, never
  the challenger's clothes; one world owns the page. Write each raise as its
  own named line on the presented direction, and carry every verdict, kept
  line, and raise into the decision page payload.
When you can view images, open the QUALITY BAR board and hero for any
challenger you weigh seriously and for the world you build. They exist as a
craft bar, the finish level and commitment the build is expected to reach,
never as a mockup to copy; your surface serves this product, not that render.
PRODUCT.md and explicit incumbent brand commitments constrain every direction.
The seed never chooses exact colors, fonts, tokens, or a user preference, and
it never permits the world and first surface to be selected independently.
The CREATIVE SPARK is a complete visual system, not a theme or decorative
reference. Translate every supplied system rule into the product: palette and
material, type and composition, topology, controls and states, and adaptation.
Keep the source's visible character, scale, rhythm, and interaction instead of
reducing vivid grammar to generic nouns. When the source is already a credible
interface language, commit to it across navigation, content, controls, and
states. Otherwise keep a literal carrier only when it becomes functional.
Ambitious motion, spatial media, or interaction is welcome when it strengthens
the product without weakening semantics, performance, or fallback behavior.
AFTER THE CHOICE, run exactly one command and follow what it prints (do not suppress its output; do not write page code before it):
  node ../opt/impeccable/.codex/skills/impeccable/scripts/build-phase.mjs start --direction a9cf5a53 --kind <assigned|pick|challenger|canon> [--chosen <challenger-id>]
  It records the choice (anonymous: card kind plus catalog id; skipped under DO_NOT_TRACK / IMPECCABLE_NO_TELEMETRY) and opens the build phases: on a comp-led build the comp round is the first gate (three comps, one approved) and no page code is written before it closes; on a code-led build it prints the contract step. A build without this state file is a build the finish reviewer treats as having skipped the round.
A user- or brief-pinned decision beats the roll, always.
ASSIGNED INDEX (restated for truncated readers): 6. Build candidate
6 of your own grounded list; seed key a9cf5a53.
