DIRECTION CONCEPT SEED (key: f303f818; mode: experience; source: api; approved pool: c3b204a1eed6; 306/564 human-approved; rerun with --scope direction --mode experience --from f303f818 --candidate-count 7 to reproduce this roll against this catalog revision)
ASSIGNED INDEX: 5
  After ordering the grounded directions by resonance, build candidate
  5 of your own grounded list; the assignment never points at a
  challenger. The assignment is the roll, not a suggestion: your top-ranked
  direction is what every run would ship, so the script decides which grounded
  direction gets built. Each direction joins a durable visual system to a
  concrete expression for the requested first surface, decided as one. It must
  survive the current task plus navigation, quiet and dense content,
  interaction and state, and a substantially different future surface. In an
  attended run, present the assigned direction fully committed and offer
  re-roll. You may add ONE card for your top-ranked grounded candidate when
  it is not the assigned direction, kicker IMPECCABLE’S PICK, with an honest risk line
  naming its familiarity; one pick card, never a ranked lineup, and the pick
  never takes the lead position. When the assignment IS your top candidate,
  there is no pick card. Re-roll yourself only
  on named factual grounds, when the assignment cannot carry the product's
  truth or task; taste is never grounds.
  The assignment exists to refuse the model's ranking rut, never to outrank
  the user or the brief. Never expose assignment metadata in user-facing labels.
CHALLENGERS:
  1. the 1900 Du Bois data portraits, where hand-inked bars, spirals, and color fields turn hard statistics into unapologetically bold graphic argument
     SOURCE ID: dubois-data-portraits
     CREATIVE SPARK: A crimson spiral coils tighter than the page should allow, gold and black bars slam against hand-lettered captions, and one wandering line carries a population across fifty years.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: aged cream board with saturated crimson, gold, emerald, and ink black laid down flat by hand
       - Type/composition: hand-lettered small-caps captions; each chart invents the form its question needs: coiled spirals, wrapped bars, stepped squares
       - Topology/navigation: Move by question, by chart form, and by year.
       - Controls/state: Trace, unroll, and compare; a spiral unrolls into a bar to prove the same quantity.
       - Responsive/motion: Charts redraw as if inked in one continuous stroke; small screens show one chart at a time at full bleed.
     WEB LEVERAGE: SVG chart forms with an unroll transition between spiral and bar encodings of the same data
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/dubois-data-portraits.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/dubois-data-portraits-hero.webp
  2. an edo woodblock print coming together one color block at a time, the keyblock outline printed first and each pigment block registered against carved kento notches until the sheet is whole
     SOURCE ID: graphic-worlds-publishing-ukiyoe-block-registration
     CREATIVE SPARK: the outline lands first in black, a ghost of a wave with nothing inside it. then indigo drops in, then safflower, each one nudged against a carved notch, and on the fifth pull the sea is suddenly deep enough to fall into.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: mineral indigo, safflower red, and clove brown on warm kozo paper, each color a flat sealed area bounded by a black keyblock line
       - Type/composition: vertical title cartouches sit in the upper corners, publisher and censor seals cluster at one margin as small red furniture
       - Topology/navigation: the sheet builds in registered layers, so moving deeper adds a block rather than a page, and the keyline never moves
       - Controls/state: controls read as carved cartouches, an active state prints its color layer in, and an inactive one shows the keyline alone
       - Responsive/motion: narrow frames drop pigment blocks in reverse carving order, and motion is the soft bokashi wipe of one field into another
     WEB LEVERAGE: layered svg color plates composited over one keyline, a css gradient wipe for bokashi, and progressive reveal of each registered block
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/graphic-worlds-publishing-ukiyoe-block-registration.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/graphic-worlds-publishing-ukiyoe-block-registration-hero.webp
  3. an interactive type specimen, where dragging an axis slider morphs a whole grid of glyphs in real time
     SOURCE ID: variable-font-specimen
     CREATIVE SPARK: A single giant letter fills the screen. You drag the weight slider and it thickens from hairline to black under your finger, live. Below, a grid of every glyph breathes in step, and a monospace readout counts the axis values.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: Near-white paper and ink black with one foundry accent; flat surfaces, generous negative space, no ornament so the letterforms carry everything.
       - Type/composition: The specimen face at enormous display size against tiny monospace UI labels; a strict measure and baseline grid; hierarchy by scale contrast alone.
       - Topology/navigation: Move by axis slider, by glyph cell, and by size and specimen view.
       - Controls/state: Drag, type, and pin; moving an axis remaps every glyph on the page continuously and updates the live coordinate readout.
       - Responsive/motion: reduced-motion snaps between named instances instead of animating the interpolation.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Bind range inputs to CSS font-variation-settings through a custom property, so one slider drives font-variation across the entire glyph grid with no per-glyph JavaScript.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/variable-font-specimen.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/variable-font-specimen-hero.webp
  4. the seven-segment display family, bedside clocks, gas-station price totems, scoreboards, and microwave panels all speaking one eight-cell mask where unlit segments are designed too
     SOURCE ID: signals-instruments-seven-segment-alarm-clock
     CREATIVE SPARK: At 3am the bedroom hour hangs as four red digits; by noon the same alphabet quotes gasoline at two meters tall, and at the stadium the score slams from 98 to 100 with nothing sliding, segments simply dying and igniting.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: lit segments in LED red, amber, or scoreboard green on matte near-black ground, unlit segments held as faint ghost cells; red glow owns the night register
       - Type/composition: one eight-cell mask makes every glyph, digits ranked in fixed slots with the colon or decimal as its own cell; absence is drawn as deliberately as light
       - Topology/navigation: the layout is a rigid mask of cells, from four bedside digits to a price totem's stack; place never moves, only which segments light
       - Controls/state: modes cycle by held buttons, set digits blink while everything else holds; the flashing 12:00 of an unset clock is the canonical error state
       - Responsive/motion: cells scale as whole units and never reflow mid-glyph; every change is an instant segment swap
     WEB LEVERAGE: CSS grid and clip-path build a true segment mask with ghost cells, and a shared worker keeps blink phase synchronized across every open tab
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/signals-instruments-seven-segment-alarm-clock.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/signals-instruments-seven-segment-alarm-clock-hero.webp
  5. a vast Miura-fold sheet unfolding from a hand-sized packet, where one pull deploys a precise field of linked mountain and valley creases
     SOURCE ID: paper-folds-pleats-deployable-miura-orbit-sheet
     CREATIVE SPARK: A gold packet no larger than a book is tugged at two corners and opens in one breath into a rigid tessellated sail spanning the floor.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: matte white sheet as ground, gold foil packet face as the accent, mountain creases scored in warm gray, valley creases in pale blue, body ink near-black
       - Type/composition: aerospace spec mono for crease ids, a parallelogram grid ruling every block, headings folded along the tessellation's diagonal seams
       - Topology/navigation: Move between compact packet, crease cell, linked row, and fully deployed sheet.
       - Controls/state: Pull, lock, reverse, and inspect with folded, opening, deployed, misfolded, and collapsed states.
       - Responsive/motion: Use stepped deployment on small screens and preserve the complete crease graph as an accessible diagram.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Constraint-linked geometry can make one control propagate across the sheet while adaptive detail protects performance.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/paper-folds-pleats-deployable-miura-orbit-sheet.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/paper-folds-pleats-deployable-miura-orbit-sheet-hero.webp
  6. a tensegrity column of carbon rods and red cord, where opposing forces make a rigid body appear to inhale and lengthen
     SOURCE ID: kinetic-sculpture-automata-tensegrity-breathing-column
     CREATIVE SPARK: The cords tighten in sequence; black rods float apart without touching, and the column rises as if drawing a slow breath.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: matte carbon-black rods on a pale concrete ground, red cord as the tension accent, slack members dropping to ash gray
       - Type/composition: engineering monospaced labels with force values, annotations pinned to nodes on leader lines, layout obeys the strut network not a page grid
       - Topology/navigation: Expose a network of tension and compression paths, letting users trace any load to its counterforce.
       - Controls/state: Pull, release, lock, and compare members while slack, balanced, stressed, and failed states are distinct.
       - Responsive/motion: Flatten the column into a force diagram on compact screens and substitute before-after poses for continuous breathing.
     WEB LEVERAGE: A constraint graph can drive both spatial geometry and a semantic force diagram from the same underlying state.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/kinetic-sculpture-automata-tensegrity-breathing-column.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/kinetic-sculpture-automata-tensegrity-breathing-column-hero.webp
Fuse each challenger before judging it: the challenger supplies the form
  and its system grammar, the product supplies every fact, and clarity wins
  conflicts. Weigh the fused result against the assigned direction on exactly
  two axes, audience identification and product clarity. Losing to strong
  grounded material is a valid outcome; beating a thin or tool-monoculture
  list is the point. A fused challenger that wins both axes becomes the build.
  Close the weighing with a verdict per challenger, decided before any
  borrowing is considered: wins (beats the assigned direction on both axes),
  competitive (holds one axis), or declined (loses both). A declined
  challenger is not spent: name the one discipline of its system the assigned
  direction lacks, and raise the assigned direction to match before
  presenting it. A donation transfers ambition and system discipline, never
  the challenger's clothes; one world owns the page. Write each raise as its
  own named line on the presented direction, and carry every verdict, kept
  line, and raise into the decision page payload.
When you can view images, open the QUALITY BAR board and hero for any
challenger you weigh seriously and for the world you build. They exist as a
craft bar, the finish level and commitment the build is expected to reach,
never as a mockup to copy; your surface serves this product, not that render.
PRODUCT.md and explicit incumbent brand commitments constrain every direction.
The seed never chooses exact colors, fonts, tokens, or a user preference, and
it never permits the world and first surface to be selected independently.
The CREATIVE SPARK is a complete visual system, not a theme or decorative
reference. Translate every supplied system rule into the product: palette and
material, type and composition, topology, controls and states, and adaptation.
Keep the source's visible character, scale, rhythm, and interaction instead of
reducing vivid grammar to generic nouns. When the source is already a credible
interface language, commit to it across navigation, content, controls, and
states. Otherwise keep a literal carrier only when it becomes functional.
Ambitious motion, spatial media, or interaction is welcome when it strengthens
the product without weakening semantics, performance, or fallback behavior.
AFTER THE CHOICE, run exactly one command and follow what it prints (do not suppress its output; do not write page code before it):
  node ../opt/impeccable/.codex/skills/impeccable/scripts/build-phase.mjs start --direction f303f818 --kind <assigned|pick|challenger|canon> [--chosen <challenger-id>]
  It records the choice (anonymous: card kind plus catalog id; skipped under DO_NOT_TRACK / IMPECCABLE_NO_TELEMETRY) and opens the build phases: on a comp-led build the comp round is the first gate (three comps, one approved) and no page code is written before it closes; on a code-led build it prints the contract step. A build without this state file is a build the finish reviewer treats as having skipped the round.
A user- or brief-pinned decision beats the roll, always.
ASSIGNED INDEX (restated for truncated readers): 5. Build candidate
5 of your own grounded list; seed key f303f818.
